README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mpobjects/bdparsii.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mpobjects/bdparsii)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.mpobjects%20AND%20a:bdparsii)
[![Sonatype Nexus (Snapshots)](https://img.shields.io/nexus/s/https/oss.sonatype.org/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/mpobjects/bdparsii/)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mpobjects/bdparsii/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/mpobjects/bdparsii?branch=master)
[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/mpobjects/bdparsii/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/github/mpobjects/bdparsii)
[![Javadocs](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.mpobjects/bdparsii)

# bdparsii 

A BigDecimal port of [Scireum's Parsii](https://github.com/scireum/parsii) library. 

Using it is as simple as:

```java
Scope scope = Scope.create();   
Variable a = scope.getVariable("a");   
Expression expr = Parser.parse("3 + a * 4", scope);   
a.setValue(4);   
System.out.println(expr.evaluate());   
a.setValue(5);   
System.out.println(expr.evaluate());
```

## Performance

The BigDecimal version can be up to 10 times slower than the original (double based) Parsii, assuming the parsed expression is reused. This is the result of arbitrary precision calculcations.

For more informatio see [the performance test suite](src/test/perftest/README.md).

## Maven

bdparsii is available under:

```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.mpobjects</groupId>
	<artifactId>bdparsii</artifactId>
	<version>0.1.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

updated big-math to 2.1.0 and ensured proper usage of the MathContext with a DECIMAL128 fail safe for functions which do not support unlimited. Fixes #2

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mpobjects/bdparsii.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mpobjects/bdparsii)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.mpobjects%20AND%20a:bdparsii)
[![Sonatype Nexus (Snapshots)](https://img.shields.io/nexus/s/https/oss.sonatype.org/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/mpobjects/bdparsii/)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mpobjects/bdparsii/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/mpobjects/bdparsii?branch=master)
[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/mpobjects/bdparsii/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/github/mpobjects/bdparsii)
[![Javadocs](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/com.mpobjects/bdparsii.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.mpobjects/bdparsii)

# bdparsii 

A BigDecimal port of [Scireum's Parsii](https://github.com/scireum/parsii) library. 

Using it is as simple as:

```java
Scope scope = Scope.create();   
Variable a = scope.getVariable("a");   
Expression expr = Parser.parse("3 + a * 4", scope);   
a.setValue(4);   
System.out.println(expr.evaluate());   
a.setValue(5);   
System.out.println(expr.evaluate());
```

## Performance

Due to calculation on arbitrary-precision decimals the performance of calculations is significantly worse than the calculations performed by the double based parsii.
Performance depends a lot on the used precision and used mathematical functions.

For more information see [the performance test suite](src/test/perftest/README.md).

## Maven

bdparsii is available under:

```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.mpobjects</groupId>
	<artifactId>bdparsii</artifactId>
	<version>0.1.0</version>
</dependency>
```
